# Copy-Move-Forgery-detection
Develop a method to detect Copy-Move forgery in a digital image by using keypoint based approach
Digital images are susceptible to ample tampering and alteration through various photo editors and such manipulations  has become very habitual in the field of defence, media, education etc. Copy-Move Forgery is a method employed to create forgeries in the digital image wherein it copies an object from the image and pastes the same object into another location in the same image. To counterattack such manipulations Copy-Move Forgery Detection(CMFD) techniques are introduced. The steps of CMFD are pre-processing, feature extraction, feature matching, and visualization. The pre-processing stage pursues to enhance the image data that subdues the undesirable deformities or upgrades any image attributes that are of utmost prominence for further processing. The feature extraction stage procures important characteristics from the image data like intensity, texture, noise. Feature extraction methods are able to extract features from a given digital image. After features are extracted, matching is administered wherein similarities between two features are executed. This paper instigates SIFT technique to detect uniform keypoints, extracts feature descriptors through SIFT technique and identifies matches between the descriptors by employing K-NN classifier and hierarchical clustering. SIFT is employed for extracting feature vectors for the obtained keypoints efficiently. This method performs well with various affine transformations like translation, scaling and rotation implemented in the digital images. The proposed method is also able to detect forgeries when all these affine transformations are  performed simultaneously which is not implemented in any other state-of the-art methods.
